Mac Ph Client Modification History
==================================

Version 1.1.1. 11/5/92.

- (Pete Resnick). The site list popup menu sometimes extends beyond the
left edge of query windows. Fixed.
- (Pete Resnick). The Cancel button does not properly cancel in the
change default server window. Fixed.

Version 1.1. 6/30/92.

- Ph version 1.0.2 does not work at all with the new MacTCP 1.1.1. 
At startup, the following bogus error message is issued:"MacTCP is 
improperly configured. No domain name servers are defined." 
Ph version 1.1 fixes this problem. (At the time this is being written,
June 30, 1992, Apple has said that MacTCP 1.1.1 should be released
to the public sometime this fall. We recommend that all Ph users
upgrade to Ph 1.1 now so they won't have any problems when the new
MacTCP is released.)
- Ph no longer strips leading blanks from field lines before displaying
them in editing windows.
- The remaining changes are intended primarily for the convenience of 
heros.
- Only heros can edit fields which do not have the "change" attribute.
Editing these fields, however, can be dangerous even for heros. To 
remind heros that they should think twice before editing such a field, 
they are marked with the special "section mark" character in editing
windows in hero mode.
- The "Open Ph Record" command now lets you open the record by alias,
name, or id, rather than just by alias or name. Steve Dorner requested 
this change, and he wrote the code.
- We now permit the use of the Edit menu commands Copy, Paste, and Select
All with password fields in the New Ph Record, Login, and Change Password
dialogs. For example, if someone sends you a request to change their
password to "abc123", you can now copy the new password from the mail
message and paste it into the Ph Change Password dialog.

Version 1.0.2. 10/21/91.

- (Pete Resnick, Steve Dorner). With System 7 and MacTCP 1.1, version
1.0.1 would sometimes get "unexpected error -23048" on attempts to
contact a server. This problem should be fixed in 1.0.2. We're not
sure what causes this error, although we suspect that the MacTCP 1.1
domain name resolver may be the culprit. In any case, 1.0.2 contains
a workaround which appears to fix the problem, at least in our tests.
The fix involves closing and reopening the MacTCP resolver and trying
again if the -23048 error occurs on any attempt to resolve a domain 
name.
- Version 1.0.2 always puts exactly one blank line at the end of all
help windows. This makes the help text a bit more readable.

Version 1.0.1. 10/16/91.

- (Hal Bloom). Under System 7, when 1.0 is run on a new Mac (no "Ph
Prefs" file exists in the Preferences folder), it fails to properly
create the prefs file. This is a major error which is fixed in 1.0.1.
The error was introduced by some code I added in version 1.0b7, but
nobody caught it.
- (Chris Chen). If MacTCP is not installed, Ph reports "unexpected
error -43" on launch. This uninformative message has been changed
to "MacTCP is not installed, or it is improperly configured."
- (Pete Resnick). Pete wrote: "OK, I admit this was a silly thing 
to do in the first place: I did the following query: 
'office_phone=*1265 return name'. I was in a mood to play.
Well, as you can imagine this took a long time. While I was waiting, I
switched into Finder to play with some stuff. Some time later, the
application menu was flashing the ph icon. I switched back into ph 
at which point it gave me the alert: Unknown error -20008. That's
connectionDoesntExist. In the query result area it said "CPU time limit
exceeded for this session." Hmmmm... someone is misbehaving."
This error is fixed - The bogus "unknown error" alert no longer
appears.

Version 1.0. 10/15/91.

- (Audrey Rosen). If the user renamed the MacTCP control panel, Ph
would get "unexpected error -43" on launch. This error has been
fixed.
- If a Help topic contains the substring "..", only the portion
of the string following the first such ".." substring is displayed
in the Help menu. Server administrators can use the characters before
the ".." to determine the order in which the topics appear in the 
menu (they are sorted alphabetically). This makes the Help menu look
lots nicer to the user.
- (Hal Bloom). If no Ph windows are open, Ph is in the backgound
under System 7, Finder is in the foreground, and the user double-
clicks on the Ph icon to bring it to the front, the cursor is a
wristwatch instead of an arrow. This error is fixed.

Version 1.0b8. 10/8/91.

- Correct an error which sometimes failed to properly report read-only
database status on logins.
- If you popup a site popup menu and select the same site in the popup
menu which was previously selected, version 1.0b7 did not update the
site domain name field. This has been fixed.

Version 1.0b7. 10/1/91.

- Fixed a minor error in the query window scroll bar.
- IM VI 3-15 says not to call ModalDialog when the frontmost window
is a movable modal dialog. I found out why when implementing Balloon
Help - it screws up the menu bar, and the Help menu in particular.
So I don't do this anymore. In cases where I need to present an
error message when a movable modal dialog is frontmost, I dismiss
the movable modal dialog, then I put up the error message alert,
and then I bring back the movable modal dialog.
- Ph has been tested with the new MacTCP 1.1. It works fine. 
- Implement Tech Note #304, "Pending Update Perils." This tech note
discusses the proper handling of update events when a modal dialog
is active. This is especially important now that we support balloon
help. It also makes Ph behave properly when a modal dialog is active
and a screen saver kicks in - when you deactivate the screen saver,
Ph now properly redraws all of its windows.
- Fixed an error which sometimes caused labels in some of the movable
modal dialogs to be drawn in the wrong font and size.
- Under System 7, Ph supports balloon help for all menus, dialogs, and
windows. The Ph application icon also has a custom Finder help balloon.
There's 96 help messages total (whew!).
- Just for yucks, check out the help balloon for the Ph icon in the Ph 
about box (bring up the about box, turn on balloon help, and park the
cursor over the copy of the Ph icon in the upper right hand corner of
the about box).
- The Help menu has been restructured. Instead of having a list of known
Ph servers at the end of the menu, there is now a single command "Change
Ph Help Server" at the beginning of the menu. This new command brings
up a server site selection dialog which is very similar to the one
used by the "Change Default Server" command.
- Under System 7, there is no separate Help menu. Instead, the help 
commands are appended to the end of the standard System 7 help 
menu at the right side of the menu bar. Apple recommends that all
help commands be located in this menu (see IM VI pp. 2-34 and 11-61).
- Under System 6, the positions of the Windows and Help menus have
been interchanged so that the Help menu comes last. This makes the
menu bars under System 6 and System 7 a bit more consistent.
- Under System 7, the "Ph Prefs" preferences file in the Preferences 
folder may now be an alias, with the actual prefs file stored elsewhere.
I have no idea why someone would want to do this, but if they try it,
it should work.
- Ph now checks for System 6.0.5 or later.
- (Ed Dewan) Ed reported: "I have discovered that if I click on several 
applications in the same folder at once (with the shift key held down), 
including Ph, then Ph opens up and all the other applications are dropped. 
Is this caused by Ph, or is it a system problem? It only happens when Ph 
is present in the mix." Ed said he was using System 6.0.5. I was unable
to reproduce this problem under 6.0.5 with Ph 1.0b7, so for now I'm
chalking this one up to cosmic rays.
- Ph now supports the four required Apple events under System 7. 
- The Open Application, Open Documents, and Print Documents events have 
no meaning in the context of Ph. They are accepted but ignored (they do 
nothing). 
- The Quit Application event causes Ph to quit. 
- Local clients (clients on the same computer as Ph) may specify that Ph 
is or is not permitted to interact with the user when they send Ph a
Quit Application event. If a local client specifies the kAECanInteract 
or kAEAlwaysInteract option, Ph interacts with the user just as if the 
user had selected the Quit command from the File menu: If any open edit 
windows contain unsaved changes, the usual "Do you want to save changes" 
alert is presented. If a local client specifies the kAENeverInteract
option, Ph quits without presenting any save changes alerts. In this
case, any unsaved changes in edit windows are lost.
- If a remote client (a client on a different computer than Ph) sends
Ph a Quit Application event, Ph never interacts with the user. That is,
in this case, Ph always uses the kAENeverInteract option, no matter
what interaction preference was requested by the remote client.
- See Inside Mac VI pages 6-51 through 6-54 for more details on these
user interaction complexities.
- As distributed, Ph only accepts Apple events from local clients.
If a user wishes to have Ph also accept network events, he must use
the "Sharing" command in the Finder's File menu to enable remote
program linking to his copy of Ph.
- Ph can now run in the background. If Ph is in the background and
needs to present an alert, the Notification Manager is used to inform
the user that Ph requires attention. A diamond appears next to the
name of the Ph applicaton in the Application menu (System 7) or the
Apple menu (System 6), and the small Ph icon flashes in the menu bar
by periodically alternating with the Application menu icon (System 7)
or the Apple menu icon (System 6). When the user brings Ph to the
foreground, the notification is removed and the alert is presented.
- Added full color icon families for System 7. If you have been
running any of the previous versions of Ph on your Mac, you'll have
to rebuild your desktop file before you will see the color icons (sorry
about that). 
- The login dialog now has a popup menu the user can use to select
the login server.
- (Butch Kemper and others). Added a Logout command to the File menu.
This command closes all open edit windows and clears the current 
login status. Note that open edit windows are always "logged in" in
the sense that if such a window is open, the user can make changes
and save them. So to effectively "logout," we really do have to close
all open edit windows.
- The menu bar is properly unhilited when the movable modal dialogs
are presented by the Change Password and Change Default Server commands.
- Multiple-line server error messages are now handled properly. For
example, "Your email field must not contain addresses ending in nwu.edu;
Use a specific login and machine instead." In 1.0b6, only the first
line of such an error message was displayed (in the example, only the
text up through the semi-colon appeared in the alert).
- (Steve Dorner). When entering a password, make the Delete key erase 
just the last character, not the whole password.
- (Pete Resnick). In the query and edit windows, use shift-tab for 
backwards tabbing instead of option-tab.
- Ph now reacts properly when the database is shut off. The message
issued by the server on connection attempts is displayed to the user.
E.g., "Database shut off (for maintenance)." For queries, the message
is displayed in the query window. For all other operations (login, get
help, etc.), the message is displayed in an alert. Note that Steve 
Dorner's "Rebuild" doc has a mistake - it says to put a line beginning 
with "stop" in file prod.sta. Actually, the line must begin with "off". 
Also, the server error code (555) is undocumented.
- On queries, CPU time limit exceeded server errors are now handled
properly. The server error message is displayed in the query result
field. On our NU server, the query "office_phone=*4080" is a good test
of this error.
- (Steve Dorner). Fixed an error involving heros changing passwords
for other open records. After changing such an open record, any attempt 
to make further changes to the record resulted in the error message "the 
alias or password is incorrect." 
- (Ed DeWan). In the query window, as you move the cursor over the
window, it changes from an arrow to an ibeam when the cursor is
positioned over any of the three text fields. In the query text
field, the left coordinate of the ibeam rectangle was off by 6 pixels.
This problem has been fixed.
- The new MacTCP 1.1b1 appears to have fixed the problems I was 
having with the domain name resolver. The problem was that sometimes
(often) my resolver result proc was being called with the result code
still set to cacheFault, and I was reporting this to the user as a
"domain name server timeout." I had abandoned the MacTCP resolver and
wrote my own resolver to get around this problem. Now I do the 
following: I use the MacTCP resolver. If my result proc is called with 
the error code still set to cacheFault, I then try my resolver. This 
should make Ph work with both versions of MacTCP, and use the MacTCP 
resolver when possible.

Version 1.0b6. 5/1/91.

(Gary Jacobs). In 1.0b5, if you tried to create a record with a
duplicate alias, Ph reported an "unexpected error 509." This mistake
has been corrected.

In 1.0b6, the Quit command is active during movable modal dialogs.

Version 1.0b5. 4/28/91.

(Bruce Foster). When Bruce first ran 1.0b4, it asked him to select a
default server, which he did (after playing with the menu for a while,
he set it back to NU). When the initial query window came up, the site
popup menu was all screwed up (it had width 0). I'm not quite sure why
this happened, but I managed to reproduce it, and I fixed it. Sometimes
the Mac toolbox is just too mysterious for words.

Version 1.0b4. 4/26/91.

(Steve Dorner). You will all be happy to hear that it is no longer
necessary to use ResEdit to change the STR 128 resource to the domain
name of your site's server.

The STR 128 resource is now the "default default server" rather than
the "default server". The "default server" is chosen by the user the
first time he or she uses the program, and it is subsequently saved
on the prefs file. The "default default server" is only used to fetch
the initial site list for the popup menu which is presented in the
initial dialog asking the user to select a default server. Does this 
make sense to you?

The first time you run 1.0b4 you will see this dialog in action. 1.0b4
will blow away your old preferences and create new ones.

The new command "Change Default Server" in the "File" menu can be used
to change your default server.

You can still use ResEdit to change the default default server in the
STR 128 resource to your local server instead of ns.nwu.edu if you
wish, and this is a good idea, but it is no longer required.

No, I have no plans for a "default default default server". :-)

(Gary Jacobs, jwn2). In 1.0b3, if no windows were open, typing 
anything caused a crash. The errror is fixed.

(Gary Jacobs, jwn2). 1.0b3 had horrible problems with really long
query replies from a server, e.g., the >80K reply with 228 matches
you get if you query ns.uiuc.edu for "restaurant". The dumb mistakes
I made are way too numerous too mention. They're all fixed (I hope).

By the way, I use the built-in Mac TextEdit routines to display query
replies, and those routines cannot handle more than 32K of text. Among
the other problems I fixed involving big query replies, I now truncate 
any replies which exceed this limit and put the special message
"----- The query reply was too long. It was truncated" at the end of
the truncated reply.

(Gary Jacobs, jwn2). My syntax error checking of query replies was
a bit too strong. 1.0b4 relaxes the checks to permit legal but unusual 
replies.

(Hal Bloom, Ron Rusnack). When an error occurs on an attempt to
change a field value, I now display the server error message as received
from the server instead of displaying my own error message based on the
server error number.

If multiple errors occur on an attempt to save an edited record with
several changed fields, I now display individual error alerts for
each field which was in error. Each of the individual error alerts
displays the error message as received from the server.

(Gary Jacobs, jwn2). The Mac Ph client uses the alias field to uniquely
identify a record which is being edited. It cannot be used to edit
records which do not have an alias. 1.0b3 didn't deal gracefully with
attempts to do this.

If you tried to log in to a record which had no alias, 1.0b3 reported 
"unexpected server error 508". 1.0b4 instead reports "You cannot login 
to a record which has no alias."

1.0b4 does not permit a logged in user to open a record for editing 
if it does not have an alias. The error message is "You cannot open a 
record which has no alias". 1.0b3 let you open such a record, but any
attempt to save changes failed with confusing error messages.

1.0b4 does not permit you to attempt to save an edited record if the
alias field has been changed to be empty. The error message is "You
cannot save a record with an empty alias field."

Version 1.0b3. 4/21/91.

- Option-tab now works in the query window - it backs up to the previous
field. (Pete Resnick).
- In edit windows, when the "Show field info" option is toggled, I now
position the display in the window so that the current field is
always visible. (Pete Resnick).
- In 1.0b2 the Windows menu was not always properly activated, e.g., 
after a query. This error is fixed in 1.0b3.
- Server error numbers are no longer presented to the user when errors
occur in queries or when fetching help text. Only the server error
messages are presented. E.g., "No matches to your query." is now 
displayed in the query window instead of "Server error 501:No matches
to your query."
- The Help menu no longer lists any help topics whose titles consist
only of decimal digits. This eliminates all the native server error
number help topics, which are completely irrelevant to the
Mac Ph client, which never reports server error numbers to the user
anyway. This makes the Help menu much shorter. In 1.0b2 the menu was
ridiculously long and hence cumbersome when used with any site except
for NU. You probably won't notice this change immediately, since the
old Help menu topic list is kept on the Ph prefs file and is only 
updated every 24 hours. To force an update so you can see the new
menu, select your site from the site list at the bottom of the Help
menu. (Bruce Foster).

Version 1.0b2. 4/17/91.

- 1.0b1 crashed horribly if you tried to open a new help window when 
there were no open windows.
- Fixed an error redrawing the server popup menu box in the Query 
window when the site list changed.
- Fixed an error saving changed fields when both the alias and some 
other field were changed.
- The page up, page down, home and end keys now work with all three
kinds of windows (query, edit, and help).
- The arrow keys now work in the query and help windows.
- Fixed the error message that's displayed if you attempt to login 
with a valid alias but a bad password.
- In query replies, if any line extends beyond 80 characters, the 
field containing the long line is reformatted as follows:
         field_name:
field text field text field text field text field text field text 
field text field text field text field text field text field text 
field text field text field text field text field text field text 
field text field text field text field text field text field text 
field text field text field text field text field text field text 
For an example, query the UIUC server for "weather". This used
to look awful with 1.0b1. It looks much better with 1.0b2.
- Fixed a stupid mistake: Non-heros who log in and then close their
login window are now permitted to reopen their record with the "Open
Ph Record" command.
- The prefs file now has a creator, type, and icon. To see the new
icon you will have to trash the old prefs file, rebuild your desktop, 
and then run the new version of Ph to create the new prefs file.
(Sorry about that - don't bother if you don't care).
- A much better error message is now displayed when a hero attempts
to create a new record and specifies an illegal value for one of 
the fields (e.g., alias too long or too short or contains an
illegal character).

Version 1.0b1. 4/11/91. First beta release.
